# CSC591-Generative_Methods

NC State Unviersity. CSC 591 - Generative Methods

Me and another student had to come up with a project that used some sort of generative method. We chose to make a 2D map maker that you could use for tabletop roleplaying games. Our map takes input of size and whether you want water or not and then creates a 2D grid where there are different colord blocks that represent different things. Gray blocks are when you can walk around,blue blocks mean water, brown mean bridges, and the other colors represent shops, inns, etc

My part of this project was to created the walking path, bridges, and river. Our path generation used the algorithm called Random Walk ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_walk). The Random Walk algorithm creates a series of random steps of varying length in a defined space. For our project, we needed to set up some initial variables. They were the number of turns, or steps, we wanted our path to have, the max length that each path could be, and a randomly chosen initial square on the grid to start the path. 

We created a loop that kept going as long as there were still turns to be made for the path. In that loop, a random length for the path segment is chosen and a random direction is chosen for the path segment to go. Then the path segment was created one square at a time in the random direction and coloring the squares gray to show the path. When the path segment reached the desired length or if it reached the edge of the graph, it stops. The max turns was decreased by 1 and the chosen random direction was stored as a reference. We did this because we wanted the new direction for the next path segment to be perpendicular to the last one. This prevented the path to double back on itself. Then the loop repeats itself until all turns are made..

The way a river was created is similar to the path, but with more restrictions. First, we started by randomly picking one of the sides of the grid and then randomly picking a square on that side. Then the direction of the river was chosen based on the starting side. If the top of the grid was chosen, then the main river direction was down. If the right side was chosen, then the main river direction was left and so on. Then we create a loop that is true until the river reached the edge of the grid. We gave it a more riverlike look by having the river change direction each iteration while still going the in the main overall direction. We limited the directions by having it only go perpendicular to the last direction and by not being able to go towards the starting side. So if the river started in the top section of the grid, then the direction for the river could never go up, only down, right, or left. The loop colors the squares on the grid blue to represent water.

The bridge blocks were done by looping through the river squares and then checking if both squares above and below or left or right of that water square is a path square. If it is, then we color that square brown to represent a bridge.    

